authentication docs (#1803)
Hyperfoil/Horreum: docs/site/content/en/docs/Concepts/users/index.md

In addition to these 3 levels, runs and schemas can have a 'token' (randomly generated string): everyone who knows this token can read the record. This token is reset any time the restriction level changes.

Tests can have tokens, too: you can have an arbitrary number of tokens, each with a subset of read, modify and upload privileges.
     

## Users and roles

There are few generic roles automatically created during initial realm import.

> - `viewer`: general permission to view non-public runs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `viewer`: read permission to view non-public runs
```

> - `uploader`: permission to upload new runs, useful for bot accounts (CI)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `uploader`: write permission to upload new runs, useful for bot accounts (CI)
```

> - `tester`: common user that can define tests, modify or delete data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `tester`: write permission to define tests, modify or delete test data.
```

> - `manager`: set team members and their roles within the team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `manager`: read/write permissions to manage team members
```

- `admin`: permission both see and change application-wide configuration such as global actions

> The `admin` role is not tied to any of the teams. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `admin` role is system wide role and is not restricted to a particular teams.
```

           

## User authentication

There are three possibilities to authenticate users. Users and roles can be managed in a dedicated Keycloak instance, in Horreum itself, or a mixed mode with both Horreum and an external OpenID provider.

### Managed keycloak instance

In this mode users and teams are stored in a Keycloak instance that Horreum can manage. In non-production environment it can be reached it on [localhost:8180](http://localhost:8180/) using credentials `admin`/`secret`.

Besides the team role itself (e.g. `engineers-team`) there must be a composite roles for each team combining the team role and permission role: bot account that uploads team's data will have `engineers-uploader` which is a composite role, including `engineers-team` and `uploader`. This role cannot view team's private data, it has a write-only access.
Users who explore runs, create and modify new tests should have the `engineers-tester` role; a composite role including `engineers-team`, `tester` and `viewer`.
You can also create a role that allows read-only access to team's private runs, `engineers-viewer` consisting of `engineers-team` and `viewer`.

### Horreum

> I's possible to run Horreum whithout any external service for authentication. That is enabled with a combination of `horreum.roles.provider=database` while leaving the `horreum.keycloak.url` property undefined. This mode relies on HTTP Basic authentication. Users are managed in Horreum's own database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to run Horreum without any external service for authentication. That is enabled with a combination of `horreum.roles.provider=database` while leaving the `horreum.keycloak.url` property undefined. This mode relies on HTTP Basic authentication. Users are managed in Horreum's own database.
```

### OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider

> The authentication is handled by an outside OpenID provider. Users and roles are managed in Horreum and therefore the `horreum.roles.provider` property must be set to `database`. Users need to be created in Horreum with a username that match the one registerd with the OpenID provider. (It's assumed the users are already registered with the provider, but they still need to be created in Horreum to define their teams and roles)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication is handled by an outside OpenID provider. Users and roles are managed in Horreum and therefore the `horreum.roles.provider` property must be set to `database`. Users need to be created in Horreum with a username that match the one registered with the OpenID provider. (It's assumed the users are already registered with the provider, but they still need to be created in Horreum to define their teams and roles)
```
